01/05/2024
Author: Dr Johnson
Ibuprofen for 3 months due to headache and TMJ
Do not drink alcohol 3 months

Subjective:

The patient presented today with complaints of persistent headaches and pain in the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) area. The headaches have been occurring for the past three months and are described as a dull, constant ache on the right side of the head, occasionally radiating to the left. The patient rates the pain as a 6 out of 10 on the pain scale. The TMJ pain is also constant and is described as a sharp, shooting pain that worsens with chewing or yawning. The patient has also noticed popping and clicking sounds when opening and closing the mouth.

Objective:

Upon examination, there was tenderness and swelling in the TMJ area. The patient's jaw movement was limited and deviated to the right upon opening. There was also evidence of teeth grinding (bruxism) and muscle tenderness in the temporalis and masseter muscles.

Assessment:

Based on the patient's symptoms and physical examination, it is likely that the patient is suffering from Temporomandibular Joint Disorder (TMJ) and associated headaches. The limited jaw movement, tenderness, and popping/clicking sounds are indicative of TMJ dysfunction. The headaches are likely a result of the TMJ disorder, as well as possible muscle tension and stress.

Plan:

Prescribe a course of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to help reduce pain and inflammation in the TMJ area.
Refer the patient to a physical therapist for jaw exercises and relaxation techniques to help improve jaw movement and reduce muscle tension.
Consider prescribing a mouth guard to wear at night to prevent teeth grinding and reduce stress on the TMJ.
Encourage the patient to practice stress-reducing activities such as meditation, yoga, and deep breathing exercises.
Schedule a follow-up appointment in 4 weeks to assess progress and adjust treatment plan as needed.


Sure, here are some sample doctor's notes for a patient with Temporomandibular Joint (TMJ) disorder and headaches:

Patient presents with persistent pain in the jaw and headaches, indicative of TMJ disorder. Recommending a course of physical therapy and relaxation techniques to help alleviate muscle tension and reduce symptoms.

Examination reveals signs of TMJ disorder, including limited jaw movement, clicking or popping sounds when opening and closing the mouth, and tenderness in the jaw muscles. Prescribing a mouth guard to wear at night to prevent teeth grinding and clenching.

Patient reports that stress and anxiety are exacerbating their TMJ symptoms and causing headaches. Referring to a psychologist for cognitive-behavioral therapy to help manage stress and reduce symptoms.

Patient has been diagnosed with TMJ disorder and is experiencing chronic headaches as a result. Recommending a combination of medication, physical therapy, and lifestyle changes to manage symptoms.

Patient has reported improvement in TMJ symptoms and headaches after implementing physical therapy and relaxation techniques. Encouraging continued use of these techniques and scheduling a follow-up appointment to assess progress.

Patient's TMJ disorder and headaches have not improved with conservative treatment. Recommending further evaluation by a specialist to determine if surgical intervention is necessary.

Patient has been diagnosed with TMJ disorder and is experiencing migraines as a result. Recommending a referral to a neurologist for further evaluation and management of migraines.

Patient has reported improvement in TMJ symptoms and headaches after using a mouth guard at night. Encouraging continued use of the mouth guard and scheduling a follow-up appointment to assess progress.

Patient has been diagnosed with TMJ disorder and is experiencing tension headaches as a result. Recommending a course of massage therapy and relaxation techniques to help alleviate muscle tension and reduce symptoms.

Patient has reported improvement in TMJ symptoms and headaches after implementing lifestyle changes such as stress management and jaw exercises. Encouraging continued use of these techniques and scheduling a follow-up appointment to assess progress.